hey guys welcome to my channel today is
a very important video for everyone who
is going to apply to a university and it
doesn't matter whether you're gonna do
your bachelor's degree a master's degree
MBA PhD I'm gonna talk about four things
that make your application perfect
interested continue watching everything
that I'm gonna talk about is based on my
own experience and I'm also using the
experience I've got while helping others
apply to the dream University and get a
scholarship to finance their studies if
your application is a hundred percent we
can divide it into four parts part
number one it's 30% of your whole
application and this is basically what
are you've already done so if you're
done your bachelor's degree already
they're gonna look at your GPA if you're
graduating from high school they're
gonna look at your high school GPA if
you've done any course that's longer
than two years normally universities
would love to see what's your result
maybe you have a transcript from the
course or maybe they gave you a
certificate with a grade so if you have
any course that's longer than two years
you would need to fill in your GPA also
your work experience if you've done any
internships if you work for a company if
you've done any competitions any prizes
that you've got this is your thirty
percent like this is your fast and this
is what makes you unique
basically when you're filling your
university application you're gonna have
this section where you would need to
fill in all of your GPAs and maybe all
of you accomplishments like sometimes
they would make you list like top five
that you think of the best so really I
had like 30 or 40 different diplomas
from back at school and I did like poets
contest or like a singing contest but I
knew that my diplomas that are really
related to my studies are probably
Olympia's that I've done like physics
English maths whatever or like
publications that are related to my
diploma work so these are the things
that you want to highlight and you're
gonna
like them in your application and you
also have your resume who are you gonna
talk about all of your accomplishments
there are a couple of questions that I
get regarding this section question
number one marina what if I don't have
anything what if I just graduated from
high school and that's it I would say if
you still have time before your
application think of doing an internship
or maybe taking part in the conference
because if you are targeting top
universities if you're looking to get
financial aid those universities are
really looking for specific people
they're looking for achievers leaders so
if you're just coming with you know your
average GPA average exam results that
might not be that impressive so if you
still have time if it still have like a
year or two years before your
application really take this time and
try to do something that you really love
like if you want to become an actor why
not start a YouTube channel if you want
to work for a big company why not study
as an intern in a local office of that
company like there are so many ways that
you can show that you're interested in
the topic and these are some of them
second question also very common marina
what if my GPA is very low what if I
didn't like the major I had during
bachelor's or maybe I hated high school
and my GPA is like not impressive at all
are there any chances for me to get into
top university something that you should
remember is that some programs would
tell you hey out of a 4.0 scale GPA
would only accept those whose GPA is 3.2
and above yes that happens especially
with top universities but that doesn't
mean that you won't be able to find a
university that accepts people with
lower GPA so finding the right
University would be the key here and
then the second part to it maybe your
GPA is 3.3 and the average GPA of people
who got accepted to the program is 3.5
so here you need a proof that you are
academically strong because when a
university looks at your GPA is like 3.3
and they would on average accept a GPA
or 3 bits and they're like oh maybe the
student is not
academically strong maybe he would not
be able to take part in the program
because he would not understand what's
going on in the class so here you can
prove that your academically strong by
taking a standardized test so if we're
talking about bachelor's degree taking
an SAT and getting a strong result is a
great indicator of your academic
abilities same for your MBA or masters
like Jima that's above 700 as a great
result
GRE that's about 320 is a great result
SAT that's above 1,300 as a great result
so if your GPA is an a' lower scale
please please please make sure that your
standardized tests are in a higher scale
and this is how we're moving to the
second part of your application another
30% are your standardized tests if
you're an international student you will
need to take either TOEFL or IELTS here
in to study in an english-speaking
country and here it doesn't matter if
you get 120 on your TOEFL or like 80
what matters is that you're above the
minimum levels that the university
requires for example University requires
80 if you scored 81 it's okay like
they're gonna consider your application
but if your score is 79 they might
reject you just based on your TOEFL
score because you would not be able to
comprehend what they're talking about in
English but there are some things to
remember if you're applying to get a
teaching assistantship and this is
something I've seen in the University of
Florida they would ask you for a high a
TOEFL score so as far as I remember the
TOEFL score to get in is 19 and if
you're applying for a teaching
assistantship they would ask you to have
a hundred so if you are considering
financial aid please do your research
and make sure that your TOEFL is enough
for both admissions and financial aid
when we talk about other tests like
Jamaa GRE SAT there's a completely
different situation
the majority of universities wouldn't
even have a minimum on that so they say
we accept any score but what they gonna
do later they're gonna compare you to
other students so a good practice here
is to look at the average class profile
of the previous year and see how much
the average student that got in skilled
on the standardized test and again here
you have a
variety of different universities some
universities would accept you with a 670
on GMAT if you look at like Harvard
their average is 730 and again the same
for SAT and Giri so really make sure
that you are a little above average from
the last year part number three also 30%
of your application and that's your
personal statements personal statements
it's the only way to show the admissions
committee that you are a great
personality it's the only way to tell
your stories that are not told in the
rest of your application like maybe
there is something that happened to you
when you're like I know I'm gonna do
that like for me when I first went to
the UK and started practicing English I
had this aha moment I'm like oh my god
this is a game-changer in language
learning this is what I want to talk
about to other language learners tell
them that hey you have this amazing
opportunity to travel take a language
course in an international language
school and really brush up your skills
and I was like oh my god I want to
connect my life with it so if you have
this aha moment talk about it like this
is your chance to tell about that in
your application and again there is so
many similar personal statements oh I
want to succeed my life I want to become
this great leader blah blah blah well
what the admissions committee is looking
for they are looking for unique stories
and they're looking for a personality so
don't try to copy the personal
statements that you see online come up
with your own story yes follow a
template and I'm gonna talk about the
templates in my later videos but please
be unique and talk about what really
drives you and what motivated you to
apply to that particular program and the
rest of the application 10% left are
your recommendation letters and again
it's really important that they're
coming from people who know you really
well who you worked with together for a
long time who can give really good
insights on your abilities and again
tell anecdotes tell real stories how you
perform in the workplace when you have
this structure in mind let's say this is
the way for you to allocate time during
your preparation so 30% of
goes to making sure you have all of the
like achievements and your resume looks
good and your applications are filled in
thirty percent of your time exam prep
and yes I know it takes a while
depending on your English level
abilities on your math skills thirty
percent
please dedicate them to personal
statements don't just write something
that you've copied online and the other
ten percent should go to your
accommodation letters and you should
spend them and talking about what kind
of anecdotes they can mention in their
recommendation letter so these four
Thanks make a perfect application do not
underestimate any of these the
university is looking at you as a whole
person not just a set of numbers so
don't underestimate personal statements
don't underestimate your resume and
recommendation letters that was it for
me guys for today please don't forget
that if you're writing a personal
statement and you need somebody to
correct it or check it there are
splendid Express where are native
speakers check your English texts in
real-time please let me know down in
comments below which country you're
applying to come and down below over the
country if you know you subscribe to
this channel hit subscribe and I'll see
you in the next videos bye